# BowlingChallenge
To solve this task I early on settled on a design with a thin UI layer, a class for handling the calculations of the score and keeping track of the game and a model class for storing data about the game in. In the end I settled on doing it in three classes, which are all  described a bit more in depth with their individual design choices below. One design choice worth mentioning before diving into these is that at one point, I did consider adding in a BowlingGame model class that would have kept track of the state of the game, which would have allowed for BowlingGameManager to be more of a proper service since it could then be kept stateless. In the end I decided that for this task a simpler design would be adequate, especially given it would not be too time consuming to extract the state keeping variables of the BowlingGameManager into a model class of their own.
### MainWindow.xaml.cs
This class is essentially just a thin layer delegating method calls on to the BowlingGameManager and formatting the data to display in the ui. I do break with this slightly in the detectGameOver private method. Ideally I would have liked for that to follow a notification flow where the BowlingGameManager instead would notify the MainWindow that the game was over, and then let the MainWindow update the ui accordingly. Instead this method is run after every button press.
### BowlingGameManager.cs
I decided for this class to manage the details of the game, which means keeping track of the frames, calculating their scores and bonusses and keeping track of which frame is currently being played. As mentioned above the state of the game could have been extracted out into a model class of its own, and had the calculations of score been sufficiently advanced or numerous enough these could have been extracted ous as well. For the purpose of this task however I found that it made sense to keep things a bit simpler.
### Frame.cs
This class is essentially the model for the game. Originally it only consisted of 4 properties to keep track of whether or not the frame was a strike, a spare or none of the two, the score and how many shots were left in the frame. However, once I got to digging in the calculation for the bonuses for strikes and spares, I found it necesseray to change my design a bit. In my second iteration I added fields to keep track of the individual score of each shot, a field for keeping track of the bonus and a read-only calculated field to get the total score for the given frame.

